I will be writing down what I have been doing. 
Firstly, I added all my files by making their respected folders.
I am now adding another folder into the first folder to add a clean data pathway where I can add the cleaned data into.
Some of the files are being cleaned manually by me making new excel documents and copying and pasting the work while others are being cleaned through google collab. 
I have cleaned most of the files manually by putting the data into a new excel file as this was much easier. 
The cleaning process for most of this was taking the years that I would be working with and all the other information on the sheet I needed.
Although I sorted out the cleaning process for the years, there are some datasets that had some rows with no values or a 0 or a null therefore the plan is to put all the datasets into google collab and make sure to check all of this.
I started to standardize all my datasets. At the start I did make the mistake of just using standard scaler which did not work with my datasets as I am not doing machine learning. That did set me back a week. 
To get myself on schedule, I looked at each dataset and tried to see what I needed to do to make the dataset easier to compare. I had to go and search up the population datasets which I created and then started to standardize the datasets that needed that.
With each dataset, I checked and saw how I would need to standardize the datasets. I needed to find population datasets that matched the months and years for example. After speaking with my supervisor, I decided to just use the estmiated population datasets and then subtract the years.
After that I would divide it by 12 (for the amount of months) and put the total number for each month. We already know that population datasets are an estimate so I was estimating the same thing still. 
After doing this, I was able to standardize all my datasets !!
I started to work on the POWERBI for the final part. Firstly, I managed to design the colours for each page of the dashboard. I decided to give each industry a different colour. 
I have now started to make the visuals for the dataset. I have completed the general economy visuals. I need to start on the comparative analysis but I would like to show my supervisor before continuing just in case it did not make sense, was not good enough. 
I have seen that I might be using more than one page for each country though. Each country can fit roughly 3/4 visuals and I feel like I can make a lot more visuals than that for each country per say. I do need to speak with my supervisor about this as well. 
As I started to add the datasets into Power BI there were a lot of changes that needed to be made. So for each dataset I had to change the titles up clean up a few rows if I knew it would not be needed for Power BI. 
For some of the datasets, the years were the columns which made it harder to make good visuals so after researching a bit on Power BI guides I learnt that I needed to unpivot my columns. This made it so much easier for visualizations. 
Different datasets expected different things on Power BI Query Editor. I had to sit and look at each dataset and clean them again so that they were ready for making visuals on Power BI. 
As some of the visuals that I could make were piecharts which I also believe do not show a lot of good insights if there are more than 4 on a chart, I found other ways of changing the format of my data to make sure that I could make different visuals that were easier to look into. 
Once I finished with adding all the datasets into Power Bi and cleaning them fully, I started on making the different visuals. I had to work with each industry as that helped. With datasets that had category, I decided to make 6 line charts or clustered column charts on a
page to show the different categories that matched. For example I put all the meat grouped ones together and the dairy products together. This helped show a difference and makes it easier to compare. 
A visual that took me a lot of time was the Trade one where I was making filled maps. This was hard because I thought I made the right visual at the start but soon realised it needed improving. I asked Coilot which helped me make it so the dataset shows us the coloured top year. 
Also, I needed to finish this first dashboard as the second dashboard document I was making was going to have all the comparisons. I decided to make two seperate documents because the first dashboard page had a lot of pages and with the comparative analysis and storytelling I thought it would be better to have a seperate 
document for the comparative dashboard as it would be more concise and better to see. 
